Add Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest News Post (#13869)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-10-30-fall-time-mania-mapping-contest.md

---
layout: post
title: Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest 2025
date: 2025-10-30 16:00:00 +0000
---

The first iteration of FTMC is on its way with the chilly autumn air! Are you ready to start your holiday mapping?

![](wiki/shared/news/2025-10-30-fall-time-mania-mapping-contest/banner.jpg)

> With the temperatures dropping rather quickly, we would like to give you a warm welcome to the **Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest**'s debut! You can read the full details in the forum post linked [here](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1).

Reviewer: too many forum links in this post

```suggestion
With the temperatures dropping rather quickly, we would like to give you a warm welcome to the **Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest**'s debut!
```

> This mapping contest originated from its close seasonal partner, [STMI](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2050785?n=1), which was an osu!mania 6K contest whose goal was getting more players interested in the keymode. After the contest's success, we now want to welcome all mappers by allowing submissions **from 4 to 10 keys!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mapping contest originated from its close seasonal partner, [STMI](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2050785?n=1), which was an osu!mania 6K contest with the goal of getting more players interested in the key mode. After the contest's success, we now want to welcome all mappers by allowing submissions **from 4 to 10 keys!**
```

FTMC 2025 will be a one difficulty, one song per submission contest from osu!'s Featured Artist listing. It will follow a specific judging criteria listed below with the inclusion of a gimmick. Judging criteria and rules also expanded on the [contest's forum post found here](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1). How should you map? Well, the editor is your canvas! You're to map as your heart desires as long as you follow the rules!

## Schedule

Please note that any schedule changes will be made known in the contest's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/p8bwdrjExr) as well as through the forum post. Please keep an eye out on these outlets to receive the most up-to-date news regarding the contest.

| Event | Dates |
| --: | :-- |
| Beatmapping (3.5 weeks) | October 30th - November 24th (16:00 UTC) |
| Judging (2 weeks) | November 24th - December 8th (16:00 UTC) |
| Results (1 week) | December 9th - December 15th |

Results will be made public through the Discord server as well as through a conclusion news post.

## Prizes

This contest comes packed with prizes so do not fret! Your efforts will be rewarded!

> We've prepared some lovely prizes to reward those who impress our judges the most! We also have a category called **Judge's Pick** which will feature the entry that the judges deemed worthy of an extra prize!

Reviewer: what? the regular prizes are decided by the same judges as well, no? how is this one picked?

| Placement | Prizes |  |
| :-: | :-- | :-- |
| 1st | 3 months of osu!supporter, **[contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points)**, **profile badge** | ![Badge](wiki/shared/news/2025-10-30-fall-time-mania-mapping-contest/badge.jpg) |
| 2nd | 2 months of osu!supporter |  |
| 3rd | 1 month of osu!supporter |  |
| Judge's Pick | 3 months of osu!supporter |  |

The amount of contest points awarded will be determined by the number of mappers participating in the contest, as detailed in the [contest point key](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points#points-key).

## Judging criteria

> For more details regarding the criteria, please take a look at the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1) as it describes then further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details regarding the criteria, please take a look at the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1) as it describes them further.
```

| Category | Details |
| :-: | :-- |
| Musical Representation (10) | How effectively the beatmap's rhythms, object placements and pattern choices fit the music. |
| Creativity (10) | How inventive the beatmap's structure/design choices are. |
| Gameplay (10) | How engaging the beatmap is to play as well as taking into account if your choice in patterns, structure and design affect the experience overall. |

> | Gimmick (5) | Your map's final object count should be a multiple of either 9,10,11 or 12 to signify the months which autumn falls under. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Gimmick (5) | Your map's final object count should be a multiple of either 9, 10, 11, or 12 to signify the months which autumn falls under. |
```

## Rules

- **Only use songs from the [Featured Artist listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists).** If your submission is not part of the FA listing, it'll be disqualified.
- **Submissions must be in `.osz` format**.
- **Submissions must only be of the osu!mania game mode**. Any other game mode will not be accepted.
- **Submissions must adhere to the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria) as well as the [osu!mania ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_criteria/osu!mania)**. The winner will have a guaranteed BN for their map.
- **Submissions must not be publicly revealed until results are out, this includes sharing the map and/or submitting it through the editor**.

> - Cut versions are allowed only if it comes from the Featured Artist listing, the cut makes sense, and it's appropriately titled as such in the map's title `(Cut ver.)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cut versions are allowed only if the song comes from the Featured Artist listing, the cut makes sense, and it's appropriately indicated as such with `(Cut ver.)` in the map's title.
```

- Your entry must **only be mapped by you**, collaborations are not allowed in this contest.
- Allowed keymodes range from 4K up to 10K. For this contest, 10K+ keymodes are not allowed.
- **Use of artificial intelligence (AI)** is strictly prohibited. If your entry is found to be violating this, it will be immediately disqualified.
- Only **1 song with 1 difficulty** is allowed per submission.

## Submitting your entry

Submitting your entry for this contest will be done through **its [contest page listing]()**. You are allowed to resubmit your entry anytime before the mapping phase has ended. A quick overview on how to submit your entry would be as follows:

- Export your already done map through the editor.
- Once exported, drag and drop it through the aforementioned [contest page listing]().

---

Feel free to join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/p8bwdrjExr) to receive updates and the latest information regarding the contest as well as the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1).

> Please be sure to go through the [contest page]() to submit your entry! Best of luck and have fun!

Reviewer: redundant again

```suggestion
Best of luck and have fun!
```

---
layout: post
title: Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest 2025
date: 2025-10-30 16:00:00 +0000
---

The first iteration of FTMC is on it's way with the chilly autumn air! Are you ready to start your holiday mapping?

> ![](https://i.gyazo.com/9356eb561bd54282db105a324669c887.png)

Reviewer 3: To host the news banner, you'll have to:
- Create a new folder in `/wiki/shared/news/...`. The name of which **must** be the same as the news post's. See other folders in the same directory for examples.
- Add the `banner.jpg` and `banner@2x.jpg` to the folder you just made.
- Use the relative path of `banner.jpg` as a banner for the post.

The **Fall Time Mania Mapping Contest** is debuting this year and with the temperature already dropping, we would like to give you a warm welcome in this exhilarating contest! You can read the full details in the forum post linked [here]()!

> This mapping contests stems from it's close seasonal partner, [STMI](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2050785?n=1), which targeted a specific mapping demographic being an only 6K keymode mapping contest without gimmick to try and get more people interested in the keymode which was a complete success, but this time around, all mappers are welcomed and we hope to see your entry soon!

Author: Will modify this a bit further.

> FTMC will be a one difficulty, one song per submission contest from osu!'s Featured Artist listing. It will follow a specific judging criteria listed below and also expanded on in the [contest's forum post found here](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2145873?n=1). How should you map? Well, the editor is your canvas! You're allowed to map any style as long as it adheres to the rules and to the gimmick!

Reviewer 3: Couple things:

- The previous (original) paragraph claimed the contest has no gimmicks. Having an explicit mention of "gimmick" in the criteria, and another one here, seems to be somewhat contradictory to it. Would stick to one or the other, but it probably would be best not to claim there are no gimmicks if the word stays in the current criteria.
- This feels like a rather compact, hard to read summary of the entire ruleset. Would've probably opted by focusing on the important stuff. Right now, this paragraph feels like it's trying to cramp *too* much information at the same time. Though this could most likely be a nitpick.

> Is your map ready and you fulfill the criteria? Let's not keep you waiting no more! Submit through the [contest page]() here!

Author: Deleted this, added it from other examples of news posts I saw but I ultimately agree with you on this one.

## Schedule

> Please note that any schedule changes will be made known in the contest's [Discord sever](https://discord.gg/p8bwdrjExr) as well as be projected through the forum post so please keep an eye out for that or join the server to receive the most up-to-date news regarding the contest.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please note that any schedule changes will be made known in the contest's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/p8bwdrjExr) as well as be projected through the forum post so please keep an eye out for that or join the server to receive the most up-to-date news regarding the contest.
```

| Event | Dates |
| --: | :-- |
| Beatmapping (3 weeks) | November 3rd - November 24th (23:59 UTC) |
| Judging (2 weeks) | November 24th - December 8th (23:59 UTC) |

> | Results (1 week)| December 15th |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Results (1 week) | December 15th |
```

| 1st | 3 months of osu!supporter, **[contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points)**, **profile badge** | ![Badge](https://i.gyazo.com/154b75d167e0d4c6a60b4606df51b889.png) |
| 2nd | 2 months of osu!supporter |  |
| 3rd | 1 month of osu!supporter |  |
| Judge's Pick | 3 months of osu!supporter |  |

The amount of contest points awarded will be determined by the number of mappers participating in the contest, as detailed in the [contest points key](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points#points-key).

## Judging Criteria

For more details regarding the criteria, please take a look at the [forum post]() as it details it further.

| Category | Details |
| :-: | :-- |
| Musical Representation (10) | How effectively the beatmap's rhythms, object placements and pattern choices fit the music. |
| Creativity (10) | How inventive the beatmap's structure/design choices are. |
| Gameplay (10) | How engaging the beatmap is to play as well as taking into account if your choice in patterns, structure and design affect the experience overall. |
| Gimmick (5) | Your map's final object count should be a multiple of either 9,10,11 or 12 to signify the months which autumn falls under. |

## Rules

> - **Only use songs from our [Featured Artist listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists).** You can choose whatever artist or song you'd like as long as it's on our FA listing, if your submission is not part of the FA listing, it'll be disqualified.

Reviewer 3: Not your listing, but rather the game's. Also the second part of this rule is entirely redundant.
```suggestion
- **Only use songs from the [Featured Artist listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists).** If your submission is not part of the FA listing, it'll be disqualified.
```

- **Submissions must be in `.osz` format**.
- **Submissions must only be of the osu!mania game mode**. Any other game mode will not be accepted.
- **Submissions must adhere to the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria) as well as the [osu!mania ranking criteria](wiki/Ranking_criteria/osu!mania)**. The winner will have a guaranteed BN for their map.
- **Submissions must not be publicly revealed until results are out, this includes sharing the map and/or submitting it through the editor**.

> - Cut versions are allowed only if it comes from our Featured Artist listing, the cut makes sense and it’s appropriately titled as such in the map’s title `(Cut ver.)`.

Reviewer 3: Incorrect apostrophes, plus this is technically not your "FA Listing", but rather the game's. Plus oxford comma.
```suggestion
- Cut versions are allowed only if it comes from the Featured Artist listing, the cut makes sense, and it's appropriately titled as such in the map's title `(Cut ver.)`.
```

Side note, but the rule is somewhat confusing. Particularly the second part of it. What do you mean by the "cut making sense" if the first part simply allowed cuts directly from the FA listing? Does it mean that users can make their own cuts so long songs come from the listing? Does it mean that only *some* cuts in the listing are allowed? If so, which of the cuts in the listing are allowed? It's somewhat up to interpretation, would make it clearer.

Author: Will modify this.

> - Your entry should **only be mapped by you**, collaborations are not allowed in this contest.

Reviewer 3: Should? Considering collaborations are not allowed, proper wording would be "must"
```suggestion
- Your entry must **only be mapped by you**, collaborations are not allowed in this contest.
```

- Allowed keymodes range from 4K up to 10K. For this contest, 10K+ keymodes are not allowed.
- **Use of artificial intelligence (AI)** is strictly prohibited. If your entry is found to be violating this, it will be immediately disqualified.
- Only **1 song with 1 difficulty** is allowed per submission per contestant.

## Submitting your entry

> Submitting your entry for this contest will be done through [**its contest page listing** that can be found here](). You are allowed to resubmit your entry anytime before the mapping phase has ended. A quick overview on how to submit your entry would be as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Submitting your entry for this contest will be done through **its [contest page listing]()**. You are allowed to resubmit your entry anytime before the mapping phase has ended. A quick overview on how to submit your entry would be as follows:
```
